Hello everyone, and welcome to
the visual perception course of
the self-driving
car specialization.
You've probably noticed
that most major players in
the autonomous driving
industry have a camera as
their primary sensor in
their vehicle sensor suite.
The camera is a rich sensor that
captures incredible detail
about the environment around
the vehicle but requires
extensive processing to make
use of the information that's
available in that image.
Throughout this course,
you will get
hands on experience on how to
algorithmically manipulate
camera images to
extract information,
useful, not just for
autonomous driving
but for robotic
perception in general.
In the first module in
week one of this course,
we will provide you
with an overview of
important concepts related to
cameras and computer vision.
This module is only meant as
a high level summary of
the basics of computer vision.
So, we'll move quickly
through a large number of
topics to develop more in-depth
knowledge in this area,
have a look at
the computer vision courses
also available on Coursera.
In this first video,
we will highlight why
the camera is a critical sensor
for autonomous driving.
We will then briefly introduce
the concept of
image formation and present
the pinhole camera model
which captures
the essential elements
of how a camera
works in a simple
and elegant manner.
We'll then show you
an example of
a historic camera design
which used the pinhole
principle to
create some of the earliest
images ever recorded.
The pinhole model will
form the basis of
our discussions in
the next video where we
investigate how to
project points from
the world into the camera
imaging sensor.
Of all the common
self-driving car sensors,
the camera is the sensor
that provides
the most detailed
appearance information
from objects in the environment.
Appearance information
is particularly
useful for scene understanding
tasks such as object detection,
segmentation and identification.
Appearance information is
what allows us to distinguish
between road signs or
traffic lights states,
to track turn signals and resolve
overlapping vehicles
into separate instances.
Because of its high
resolution output,
the camera is able to collect and
provide orders of magnitude,
more information than
other sensors used in
self-driving while still
being relatively inexpensive.
The combination of high valued
appearance information and
low cost make
the camera an essential
component of our sensor suite.
Let us see how
the camera manages to
collect this huge amount
of information.
A camera is a passive
external receptive sensor.
It uses an imaging sensor
to capture information
conveyed by light rays emitted
from objects in the world.
This was originally done with
film but nowadays we use
rather sophisticated
silicon chips
to gather this information.
Light is reflected
from every point
on an object in all directions,
and a portion of these rays
travel towards the camera sensor.
Look at the car's reflected rays
collected by our imaging surface.
Do you think we will get
a good representation of
the car on the image sensor
from this ray-pattern?
Unfortunately, no.
Using this basic open
sensor camera design,
we will end up with blurry images
because our imaging
sensor is collecting
light rays from
multiple points on
the object at the same
location on the sensor.
The solution to our problem is to
put a barrier in front of
the imaging sensor
with a tiny hole
or aperture in its center.
The barrier allows
only a small number
of light rays to pass
through the aperture,
reducing the blurriness
of the image.
This model is called
the pinhole camera model
and describes the relationship
between a point in
the world and it's
corresponding projection
on the image plane.
The two most important parameters
in a pinhole camera model are
the distance between
the pinhole and
the image plane which we
call the focal length,
the focal length
defines the size of
the object projected
onto the image and plays
an important role
in the camera focus
when using lenses to
improve camera performance.
The coordinates of
the center of the pinhole,
which we call the camera center,
these coordinates to
find the location on
the imaging sensor that
the object projection
will inhabit.
Although the pinhole
camera model is very simple,
it works surprisingly well for
representing the image
creation process.
By identifying
the focal length and
camera's center for
a specific camera configuration,
we can mathematically describe
the location that a ray of
light emanating from an object in
the world will strike
the image plane.
This allows us to form
a measurement model of
image formation for use
in state estimation
and object detection.
A historical example of
the pinhole camera model
is the camera obscura,
which translates to
dark room camera in English.
Historical evidence shows that
this form of imaging
was discovered as early
as 470 BC in Ancient
China and Greece.
It's simple construction with
a pinhole aperture in front of
an imaging surface makes it
easy to recreate on your own,
and is in fact a safe way to
watch solar eclipse if
you're so inclined.
We've come a long way since
the invention of
the camera obscura.
Current-day cameras
allow us to collect
extremely high resolution data.
They can operate in
low-light conditions
or at a long range due to
the advanced lens optics
that gather a large amount
of light and focus it
accurately on the image plane.
The resolution and sensitivity of
camera sensors
continues to improve,
making cameras one of the most
ubiquitous sensors on the planet.
How many cameras do
you think you own?
You'd be surprised if you
stop to count them all.
You'll have cameras in
your phones, in your car,
on your laptop,
they are literally
everywhere and in
every device we own today.
These advances are also
extremely beneficial for
understanding the environment
around a self-driving car.
As we discussed in course one,
cameras specifically designed for
autonomous vehicles need to work
well in a wide range of
lighting conditions and
in distances to objects.
These properties are
essential to driving
safely in all
operating conditions.
In this introductory lesson,
you've learned the usefulness of
the camera as a sensor
for autonomous driving.
You also saw the pinhole
camera model
in its most basic form,
which we'll use
throughout this course to
construct algorithms
for visual perception.
In the next video, we will
describe how an image is formed,
a process referred to
as projective geometry,
which relates
objects in the world
to their projections
on the imaging sensor.